Let's talk about what can go wrong if the work your team
does is not aligned to the business.
Many people think, how cares, I'm coding anyway,
I think I am doing what's important and what's the difference?
What will it really make?
Well it might be minor, but it can affect your job or even your career as well.
So here are some effects of misalignment.
Your team is working on the wrong priorities.
So what is the right priority?
You need a process to identify the work and prioritize.
Your team is not helping the business achieve its maximum potential.
So what is the maximum potential?
You need a process to determine what the right work is from the business.
Your team will feel less connected to the business.
I think this is an important one.
I truly believe that if you and your team feels connected to the business,
they will feel that their contributions really mean something and
have an effect on the business and its customers.
This improves morale and productivity and what the business really wants.
It's a win/win.
Lastly, mistrust and misunderstanding between the business and IT personnel.
In my career,
I have seen time and time again this misalignment between IT and the business.
This results in less productivity and more organizational issues.
So have a good process by which the business and IT get
together and collectively understand the business goals and
how IT will help them achieve them.
This builds trust and it will make your job much more rewarding and fun too.
Now let's recap your challenge ahead of you.
First the key is to work with the business when developing your IT plan,
a solid understanding of the business needs combined with the
mutual understanding of drivers and constraints will help you
create a very effective plan.
Next, the planning process requires that you review the business environment,
assess the current state of IT,
define a target state that is aligned with the organizational
priorities and focus efforts on IT initiatives that bring
tangible benefits to the business.
In the previous slide and this slide I have emphasized that you need a process.
The remainder of this module will present an example of a planning process to ensure your activities are aligned to the business.